1. A slave runs away from his master and hides in the woods – then finds himself face to face with a limping lion…

The tale of Androcles and the Lion is said to have been written by Aesop – the great Greek storyteller who always summed up his stories from the animal kingdom with a moral. In the case of Androcles, the lesson is that “Gratitude is the sign of a noble soul!”

Read by Natasha. Duration 6 minutes 5 seconds

Proofread by Claire Deakin.

It happened in ancient times that a slave named Androcles escaped from his master and fled into the forest, and he wandered there for a long time until he was weary.

Just then he heard a lion near him moaning and groaning and at times roaring terribly.  And when  he tried to get up, there he saw the lion coming towards him.

Instead of attacking him it kept on moaning and groaning and looking at Androcles, who saw that the lion was holding out his right paw, which was covered with blood and very much swollen. Looking more closely at it, Androcles saw a great big thorn pressed into the paw, which was the cause of all the lion’s trouble.

Plucking up courage, he seized hold of the thorn and drew it out of the lion’s paw, who roared with pain when the thorn came out, but soon after found such relief from it that he rubbed up against Androcles, and showed  that he knew, that he was truly thankful for being relieved from such pain.

One day, a number of soldiers came marching through the forest and found Androcles. They took him prisoner and brought him back to the town, and he was condemned to death because he had fled from his master.

Now it used to be the custom to throw murderers and other criminals to the lions,  and on the appointed day he was led forth into the arena.

The Emperor of Rome was in the royal box that day and gave the signal for the lion to come out and attack Androcles. But when it came out of its cage and got near Androcles, what do you think it did? Instead of jumping upon him, it rubbed up against him, and stroked him with its paw.

It was of course the lion which Androcles had met in the forest. The Emperor summoned Androcles to him. So Androcles told the Emperor all that had happened to him and how the lion was showing gratitude for his having relieved it of the thorn. Thereupon, the emperor pardoned Androcles and ordered his master to set him free, while the lion was taken back into the forest and let loose to enjoy freedom once more.


2. Once upon a time there were three bears, who lived together in a house of their own in a wood. One of them was a little, small wee bear; one was a middle-sized bear, and the other was a great, huge bear.

One day, after they had made porridge for their breakfast, they walked out into the wood while the porridge was cooling. And while they were walking, a little girl came into the house. This little girl had golden curls that tumbled down her back to her waist, and everyone called her by Goldilocks.

Goldilocks went inside. First she tasted the porridge of the great, huge bear, and that was far too hot for her. And then she tasted the porridge of the middle bear, and that was too cold for her. And then she went to the porridge of the little, small wee bear, and tasted that. And that was neither too hot nor too cold, but just right; and she liked it so well, that she ate it all up.

Then Goldilocks went upstairs into the bed chamber and first she lay down upon the bed of the great, huge bear, and then she lay down upon the bed of the middle bear and finally she lay down upon the bed of the little, small wee bear, and that was just right. So she covered herself up comfortably, and lay there until she fell fast asleep.

By this time, the three bears thought their porridge would be cool enough, so they came home to breakfast.

“SOMEBODY HAS BEEN AT MY PORRIDGE!” said the great huge bear, in his great huge voice.

“Somebody has been at my porridge!” said the middle bear, in his middle voice.

Then the little, small wee bear looked at his, and there was the spoon in the porridge pot, but the porridge was all gone.

“Somebody has been at my porridge, and has eaten it all up!” said the little, small wee bear, in his little, small wee voice.

Then the three bears went upstairs into their bedroom.

“SOMEBODY HAS BEEN LYING IN MY BED!” said the great, huge bear, in his great, rough, gruff voice.

“Somebody has been lying in my bed!” said the middle bear, in his middle voice.

And when the little, small, wee bear came to look at his bed, upon the pillow there was a pool of golden curls, and the angelic face of a little girl snoring away, fast asleep.

“Somebody has been lying in my bed, and here she is!” Said the little, small wee bear, in his little, small wee voice.

Goldilocks jumped off the bed and ran downstairs, out of the door and down the garden path. She ran and she ran until she reached the house of her grandmama. When she told her grandmama about the house of the three bears who lived in the wood, her granny said: “My my, what a wild imagination you have, child!”


3. Once upon a time there was an old man, an old woman, and a little boy. One morning the old woman made some gingerbread in the shape of a man. She added icing for his hair and clothes, and little blobs of dough for his nose and eyes. When she put him in the oven to bake, she said to the little boy, "You watch the gingerbread man while your grandfather and I go out to work in the garden."

So the old man and the old woman went out and began to dig potatoes, and left the little boy to tend the oven. But he started to day dream, and didn’t watch it all of the time. All of a sudden he heard a noise, and he looked up and the oven door popped open, and out of the oven jumped a gingerbread man, and went rolling along end over end towards the open door of the house. The little boy ran to shut the door, but the gingerbread man was too quick for him and rolled through the door, down the steps, and out into the road long before the little boy could catch him.

The little boy ran after him as fast as he could manage, crying out to his grandfather and grandmother, who heard the noise, and threw down their spades in the garden to give chase too. The gingerbread man outran all three a long way, and was soon out of sight, while they had to sit down, all out of breath, on a bank to rest.

On went the gingerbread man, and by-and-by he came to two men digging a well who looked up from their work and called out, "Where ye going, gingerbread man?"

He said, "I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, and a little boy - and I can outrun you too-o-o!"

"You can, can you? We’ll see about that?" Said they, and so they threw down their picks and ran after him, but couldn’t catch up with him, and soon they had to sit down by the roadside to rest.

On ran the gingerbread man, and by-and-by he came to two men digging a ditch. "Where ye going, gingerbread man?" said they.

He said, "I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, and two well diggers, and I can outrun you too-o-o!"
"You can, can you? We’ll see about that!" said they, and they too threw down their spades, and ran after him. The gingerbread man soon outstripped them also, and seeing they could never catch him, gave up the chase and sat down to rest.

On went the gingerbread man, and by-and-by he came to a bear. The bear said, "Where are ye going, gingerbread man?"
He said, "I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, two well diggers, and two ditch diggers, and I can outrun you too-o-o!"

"You can, can you?" Growled the bear. "We’ll see about that!" He trotted as fast as his legs could carry him after the gingerbread man, who never stopped to look behind him. Before long the bear was left so far behind that he saw he might as well given up the hunt at the start, so he stretched himself out by the roadside to rest.

On went the gingerbread man and by-and-by he came to a wolf. The wolf said, "Where ye going, gingerbread man?"

He said, "I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, two well diggers, two ditch diggers, and a bear, and I can outrun you too-o-o!"

"You can, can you?" Snarled the wolf. "We’ll see about that!" So he set into a gallop after the gingerbread man, who went on and on so fast, that the wolf too saw there was no hope of overtaking him, and he too lay down to rest.

On went the gingerbread man, and by-and-by he came to a fox that lay quietly in a corner of the fence. The fox called out in a sharp voice, but without getting up, "Where ye going, gingerbread man?"

He said: "I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, two well diggers, two ditch diggers, a bear, and a wolf, and I can outrun you too-o-o!"

The fox said, "I can’t quite hear you, gingerbread man. Won’t you come a little closer?" Turning his head a little to one side.

The gingerbread man stopped his race for the first time, and went a little closer, and called out in a very loud voice, "I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, two well diggers, two ditch diggers, a bear and a wolf, and I can outrun you too-o-o."

"I still can’t quite hear you. Won’t you come a little closer?" Said the fox in a feeble voice, as he stretched out his neck towards the gingerbread man, and put one paw behind his ear.

The gingerbread man came up close, and leaning towards the fox, screamed out "I’VE OUTRUN AN OLD MAN, AN OLD WOMAN, A LITTLE BOY, TWO WELL DIGGERS, TWO DITCH DIGGERS, A BEAR AND A WOLF, AND I CAN OUTRUN YOU TOO-O-O!"

"You can, can you?" Yelped the fox, and he snapped up the gingerbread man in his sharp teeth in the twinkling of an eye.

And that was the storynory of the gingerbread man. I think that the ending is rather sad, but Bertie doesn’t agree. He says that gingerbread is extremely tasty, and he doesn't blame that fox at all for wanting to eat it. I suppose he has a point, but then again, it’s not just any old piece of gingerbread that can run. 